Colleges and universities vary widely in terms of size and infrastructure, but most have common needs for diverting waste. In many ways, a campus is like its own city with a wide range of waste materials. Just about every building generates cardboard, 
academic buildings have potential to redirect large amounts of recyclable paper, while public campus spaces and dorms have significant recycling opportunities for bottles and cans. Dining facilities can establish donation and composting programs for food scraps, as well as recycling programs for cardboard and bottles and cans. Colleges and universities also generate surplus electronic equipment, office furniture, construction and demolition materials, mattresses, and fluorescent lights. In addition to cost savings, recycling programs are a high visibility way to highlight the institution’s commitment to sustainability and the environment.
Recycling, composting, and waste reduction initiatives also play a key role in college and university sustainability and climate action plans.
It is important to flatten cardboard boxes before they are placed in a recycling container, as this saves space and makes it easier to consolidate and 
transport across campus. The RecyclingWorks cardboard graphic can be displayed in common cardboard collection locations, such as mail rooms, loading docks, 
and residence halls, to remind students and staff how to properly recycle the material.

Takeout, delivery, or grab-and-go dining options often generate large quantities of packaging and other single-use materials that may not be accepted for recycling through a typical single stream program in Massachusetts. 
Our Guide for Reducing Waste From Takeout and Delivery Meals 
offers tips to help your institution save money, eliminate necessary waste, and purchase takeout materials that can be reused, recycled, or composted.
When your campus hosts an event, the waste needs may be different from your day-to-day operations. See our Tips for Waste Reduction at Workplace Events for guidance on how to reduce waste, recycle, 
and divert food waste at your events.

RecyclingWorks regularly hosts College & University Forums. These forums are particularly useful for facility managers,
dining service operators, and recycling and sustainability coordinators to network and discuss waste reduction topics relevant to this sector.

